docs: Yellow paper - AVM circuit Chiplets section (#4642)
AztecProtocol/aztec-packages: yellow-paper/docs/public-vm/avm-circuit.md

**TODO**

## Chiplets

> A chiplet is a component dedicating to perform specialized sub-operations sharing some commonalities. Each chiplet consists of a specific table being part of the AVM circuit, i.e., specific columns with relations solely acting on them form the chiplet. The main rationale is to offload specialized computations outside of the **operations trace** (instruction controller) which might require more than a single row and/or additional dedicated columns. In addition, this approach offers modularity as chiplets are very independent components.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A chiplet is essentially a sub-circuit for performing specialized sub-operations. A chiplet is defined as a dedicated table (a set of columns and relations) in the AVM circuit that is activated when the the relevant sub-operation is used. The main rationale behind the use of chiplets is to offload specialized computations to a region of the circuit _outside the main operations trace and instruction controller_ where the computations might require many rows and/or additional dedicated columns. In addition, this approach offers strong modularity for the operations implemented as chiplets.

```

> A chiplet is essentially a sub-circuit for performing specialized sub-operations. A chiplet is defined as a dedicated table (a set of columns and relations) in the AVM circuit that is activated when the the relevant sub-operation is used. The main rationale behind the use of chiplets is to offload specialized computations to a region of the circuit _outside the main operations trace and instruction controller_ where the computations might require many rows and/or additional dedicated columns. In addition, this approach offers strong modularity for the operations implemented as chiplets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A chiplet is essentially a sub-circuit for performing specialized sub-operations. A chiplet is defined as a dedicated table (a set of columns and relations) in the AVM circuit that is activated when the relevant sub-operation is used. The main rationale behind the use of chiplets is to offload specialized computations to a region of the circuit _outside the main operations trace and instruction controller_ where the computations might require many rows and/or additional dedicated columns. In addition, this approach offers strong modularity for the operations implemented as chiplets.
```

2. The dedicated chiplet fetches/copies the content of the intermediate registers from the **operations trace** in its own table and executes the operation.
3. The output of the operation is copied back to the **operations trace** in a specific register (usually $I_c$). This register is usually involved in a write memory sub-operation.

In addition to the mentioned inputs and output, some other relevant information such as the instruction tag might be copied as well to the chiplet.

In the circuit, the transmission of the input/output between the **chiplet trace** and the **operations trace** are performed through lookup or permutation constraints, i.e., they ensure that all relevant intermediate registers have the same values between both traces. The unique key of this mapping is `CLK` which is basically used as a "DB foreign key" from the **chiplet trace** pointing to corresponding entry in the **operations trace**.

The planned chiplets for the AVM are:

- **ALU**: Arithmetic and bitwise operations such as addition, multiplication, XOR, etc...
- **Type Converter**: Dedicated to casting words between different types and/or type constraints.

> - **Complex Operations:** Cryptographic relevant operations or other computationally intensive gadgets. Potentially comprised of several chiplets (TBD).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Gadgets:** Relevant cryptographic operations or other computationally intensive operations. There will likely be multiple chiplets of this category, including `Poseidon2Permutation`, `Keccakf1600`, and `ECADD`.
```
